here we have a whiskey barrel planner
here in Maine people use these whiskey
barrels half whiskey barrels for planas
they're excellent planners in durable
they last years I personally have ten of
them that have had 15 years and they
allow the plants to get really big
because there's a lot of soil capacity
which holds water which means you don't
have to water as much and you have a
larger root system which means a bigger
plant simple as that
come with a hole in the bottom for
drainage but in general that hole is
going to cook in there when you get it
first thing you need to do is you need
to pull the cork out and provide proper
drainage in this case that hasn't
happened and another thing is you want
to have your drainage holes on the sides
of the barrel simply because when if you
have it on the bottom and you don't have
proper drainage underneath the barrel
what happens is the rain if you get a
prolonged period of rain or you
overwater the weight of the barrel
itself pushes down and it doesn't allow
the water to drain out the bottom so in
essence what happens is it thing fills
up the water and you get a whiskey
barrel full of water now what I suggest
is you drill the holes on the side of
the barrel you want to drill the holes
four of them on the sides all around the
barrel
I said if you don't do that the plants a
little good at first you know if it
never rains and you water it as you
normally do they look good for a long
time it's when you have a prolonged
period of rain that you have the
problems so we've done that now next
thing we want to do is we want to fill
it with growing media or soil I use a
pro mix just peat moss all it is is peat
moss comes out of peat bogs in Canada so
there's a couple of reasons we reasons
why we use a peat moss primarily it's
sterilized it's been heated up to 180
degrees and that kills any kind of
pathogen any kind of bug any kind of
fungus that might be in there and beyond
that there's no seeds for weeds no weed
seed so you know when you put it in
there the only thing it's going to grow
in there your plan and and then beyond
that it's very absorbent a lot of people
say jeez I don't like using that parting
that that Pro mix simply because it
dries out fast
it really doesn't dry out any faster
than anything else what it does is it
allows the roots to grow very rapidly
and because you have so many roots they
efficiently use the water that's in
there and that's what you want more
roots big a plant this allows more root
Shawn then adds time-released fertilizer
now most greenhouses use a three to four
month including Miracle Grow products
that you buy at the box stores is a
three month release time well if you
plant your plant in April or May let's
just say May 3 months May June July its
depleted so what I do is I use a
landscaping version of it and it takes
you all the way to September October so
it's a little more money but it's worth
it here's the trick this is how you get
you great big planter right off the bat
I'm going to use this pot to form a mold
inside this whiskey barrel and what that
will do is it'll allow me to pop the off
of the pot that's on that hang a basket
over there and put it right into that
mold that I made so I'll just show you
then Shawn gently takes apart the
hanging basket this is the important
part placing your hand at the base of
the plant if you push your hand down
like that you're going to bust it all up
and you ruined it your fingers down drop
it down in there and you kind of feel in
there until you get to the fingers on
the dirt and I'm not pushing down on any
branches okay I take the thing flip it
over like that
take it to the edge of something in this
case the four-wheel drive unit tap it a
little tap here and she comes out look
at all those routes that prey alright so
now we just line up line it up to your
hole in a one quick shot boom she's in
there you want a water until it soaks
rate through runs right through and I
suggest you water approximately five
gallons with the five tablespoons of
Miracle Grow or a balanced fertilizer
water-soluble fertilizer and as a matter
of fact if you really want it to get big
and you want a lot of blossoms double up
the dosage of fertilizer so rather than
having one tablespoon per gallon of
water you're going to put to it don't be
afraid of burning the roots I've never
seen that happen that fertilizers seem
to be processed different these days and
as I said I recommend Miracle Grow swear
by it I've already done this three times
I've already gone around the edge of
this plant when it was a little tiny
plant and then when it went into that
bigger hangar and now I'm doing it again
right now and we're just going to cut
that right off
you know come July this plant will
probably be some ways down around here
come August it's going to be you have to
trim it back with a grass trimmer or a
string trimmer or something if you get
it to September what you should be able
to these things should be spectacular
freakishly huge by September if you take
proper care of it it'll be this high
they'll be hummingbirds coming around
this thing all the time butterfly
sitting on it you'll be the envy of the
neighborhood